now.md, before:

---
layout: layout.njk
title: What I'm doing now
description: What Owen Jones is doing right this second, probably
---

This is a [now page](https://nownownow.com/about), a concept I nicked from [Steve 'Boring Magic' Messer](https://visitmy.website/now/).

## At the moment I'm...

- frontend developing from within the GOV.UK Design System team
- making my way through the [Deque University WAS course](https://dequeuniversity.com/online-courses/web-accessibility)
- reading [A *New* Program for Graphic Design](https://www.counter-print.co.uk/collections/all-books/products/a-new-program-for-graphic-design)
- learning Portuguese
- trying to get my first belt stripe in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu
- playing [The Case of the Golden Idol](https://www.thegoldenidol.com/)

## Later on I'd like to...

- explore accessibility training and specialism
- learn [Phaser](https://phaser.io/) and get one or more of my small game ideas on the screen
- spend more time making stuff in [FL Studio](https://www.image-line.com/fl-studio/)
- play all the games sitting in my steam and switch libraries

Commit message:

General content updates Sept 2024
Update the now page

Add coffee as an interest

Add WCAG 2.2 and createAll work

now.md, after:

---
layout: layout.njk
title: What I'm doing now
description: What Owen Jones is doing right this second, probably
---

This is a [now page](https://nownownow.com/about), a concept I nicked from [Steve 'Boring Magic' Messer](https://visitmy.website/now/).

## At the moment I'm...

- being a frontend developer in the GOV.UK Design System team and GDS (Government Digital Service, **not** Govuk Design System)
- making my way through the [Deque University WAS course](https://dequeuniversity.com/online-courses/web-accessibility)
- learning Portuguese
- working towards my second white belt stripe and eventually blue belt in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu
- watching [Monk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monk_(TV_series))
- figuring out putting weeknotes on this website
- chasing the perfect cup of coffee (with help from fellow North London resident [James Hoffmann](https://www.jameshoffmann.co.uk/)'s youtube channel)

## Later on I'd like to...

- explore accessibility training and specialism
- learn [Phaser](https://phaser.io/) and get one or more of my small game ideas on the screen
- spend more time making stuff in [FL Studio](https://www.image-line.com/fl-studio/)
- play all the games sitting in my steam and switch libraries; some notable things:
    - [1000xRESIST](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1675830/1000xRESIST/)
    - [Gris](https://nomada.studio/gris-game/)
    - [Elden Ring](https://en.bandainamcoent.eu/eldenring)
    - [Indika](https://indikathegame.com/)
