---
layout: layout.liquid
title: 'Weeknote 6: Cookies'
description: Includes a very small essay on being consumed by a CSS problem
date: 2024-10-18
tags: weeknotes
---

I have had a "lazy" week. That's lazy in quotes, not just lazy on it's own. I say that because stuff has been happening but on the backdrop of me making the conscious choice to not go anywhere or do anything following my sickness. I ended up taking Monday off since I hadn't quite kicked the ills and I skipped going into the office or to any jiu jitsu classes. It's been a little gloomy but when I check my sinuses now, I'm feeling healed. Next week I can rev back up again.

## Trying to move a box and losing my mind
I mentioned last week the bottomless input solution we've been working on that we planned to move over to the design system website. I've been working on this a lot this week, making little tweaks to sand off the edges of the design. In fact, I've entered the **consumed** state. It feels like it's been a while since I've been **consumed** by a problem ie: I'm thinking about it when I'm brushing my teeth at night, in the morning when I'm making my cat her breakfast etc etc. Maybe it's cause I've been sort of not really self isolating. I suspect it's more that it's just a very interesting, very tricky, full on [Family Guy window gif](https://media1.tenor.com/m/QWdPngpHxZ8AAAAd/family-guy-css.gif) CSS problem.

I won't get into all the stuff I've been doing in this weeknote but [you can read about it on the PR](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-design-system/pull/4220). Where I've left it it's a bit hacky but that's kinda how you write complex CSS isn't it? I will highlight that part of this work has involved a lot of interaction with [forced colours mode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/forced-colors) and [this Smashing Mag article](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2022/03/windows-high-contrast-colors-mode-css-custom-properties/) has been supremely helpful. Thanks Eric Bailey!

## What I'm doing next
At time of writing, the DAC audit work is starting to wind down as we get ready for the next breaking release of govuk-frontend. Next week I anticipate we'll be spending most of our time finishing an audit of our link text which is a bigger job than I think anyone anticipated. As is always the case, there's things that'll be left undone, a lot of it _very nearly done_, that I'm hopeful we can come back to later. There's a sentiment from folks on the team that they might just try to work on this anyway even when they're off the squad.

I'm feeling a little forlorn about it but there is a lot to do. Whilst the folks on this team are mostly in control of our own destiny, quite a lot more that most teams in government in my opinion, it's not right to give ourselves an infinite deadline on everything.

## Not the job
As mentioned above, a more insular week besides some walking and shopping. I think it's been the right call.

I did think I might be better on Sunday (wrong) and went to the cinema to see [Timestalker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timestalker). A whacky, funny, artsy flick about time, the smallness of humanity and obsession. Great cast as well. I enjoyed Nick Frost as a dog man and Grey Worm from Game of Thrones as a time traveling guide. It gets a thumbs up from me.

Several weeknotes ago I threatened to make cookies and I've flipping made them today. I followed [internet food megastar Kenji's recipe](https://www.seriouseats.com/the-food-lab-best-chocolate-chip-cookie-recipe) and ended up with some very nice, chewy, grown up tasting cookies. Lovely.

My only coffee update is I've started a spreadsheet. I don't think I need to say anymore.
